Add document for using task migrations (#1862)
konflux-ci/build-definitions: README.md

A build Task, e.g. one that produces a container image, must abide by both `all-tasks` and
`build-tasks` policy configurations.

## Task Migration

Task migrations are Bash scripts defined in version-specific task
directories. In general, a migration consists of a series of `yq` commands that
modify pipeline in order to work with the new version of task.

Historically, task maintainers write `MIGRATION.md` to notify users what changes
have to be made to the pipeline. This mechanism is not deprecated. Besides

> writing the file, it is also recommended to write a migration so that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
writing the document, it is also recommended to write a script so that the
```

> updates can be applied to user pipelines automatically.

Reviewer: It would also be good to mention how the migration files get applied - i.e. link to the migration tool and the configuration that enables it in our Renovate deployment  (Mintmaker)

Reviewer: I was thinking we can just add a link to the migration tool, e.g.

> ...so that the updates can be applied to user pipelines automatically (by the [pipeline-migration-tool](https://github.com/konflux-ci/pipeline-migration-tool))

Author: Updated.

The following is the steps to write a migration:

- Bump task version. Modify label `app.kubernetes.io/version` in the task YAML file.
- Ensure `migrations/` directory exists in the version-specific task directory.
- Create a migration file under the `migrations/` directory. Its name is in
  form `<new task version>.sh`. Note that the version must match the bumped
  version.

The migration file is a normal Bash script file. It should

> - Accept one argument. The pipeline file path is passed to via this argument.

Reviewer: We should also mention that this pipeline file is always a tekton Pipeline file. Even if the pipeline is defined inline in a PipelineRun file, the migration tool extracts the Pipeline from it and calls the migration script on the Pipeline.

This also means it's not possible to apply changes that would have to be done on the PipelineRun, e.g. changing the `volumeClaimTemplate` for a workspace or things like that

- All modifications to the pipeline must be done in-place, i.e. using `yq
  -i` to operate the pipeline YAML.
- Be idempotent as much as possible.
- Be simple and small as much as possible.
- Pass the `shellcheck` without customizing the default rules.

> Here are example script to create a migration for a task `task-a`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are example steps to create a migration for a task `task-a`:
```

```bash
yq -i "(.metadata.labels.\"app.kubernetes.io/version\") |= \"0.2.2\"" task/task-a/0.2/task-a.yaml
mkdir -p task/task-a/0.2/migrations || :
cat >task/task-a/0.2/migrations/0.2.2.sh <<EOF
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -e
pipeline_file=\$1

if ! yq -e '.spec.tasks[] | select(.name == "task-a") | .params[] | select(.name == "pipelinerun-name")' >/dev/null
then
  yq -i -e '
    (.spec.tasks[] | select(.name == "task-a") | .params) +=

>     {"name": "pipelinerun-name", "value": "\$(context.pipelineRun.name)"}

Reviewer: Should we make this example idempotent? (I.e. only add the param if it's not already there)

Author: It's already idempotent. Line 257 checks that.

Reviewer: Ah ok, I missed that. Maybe add a short comment about that above the `if`? It's not immediately obvious that that's why the check is there

Author: Added a comment for it.
